# Printing Calendars

Printing the [List View](<?n=views/Event List View.en.txt>) is rather easy, because
this view is just a list of rows that cross the page.  Your browser will print
as many pages as needed, depending upon the number of rows.

Printing the
[Calendar View](<?n=views/Calendar View.en.txt>) is a little
tougher, because we naturally expect to get a single landscape-oriented
sheet of paper containing a one-month calendar covering most of the page.
However, your web browser really doesn't know or care what you expect.

Before explaining the nitty gritty of printing the Calendar View,
remember that if there are blank calendar squares before day one or
after the last day of the month, you can click in them and type there to
include extra text that doesn't quite fit as a calendar event.  That
text will print, but it will not be saved in any way.

The navigation tabs at the top and the blocks of buttons at the bottom
of the page are set up not to print.  You should only see a rectangular
box around the familiar rows of cells, with a month name and light gray
timestamp above.

If your browser formats it all strictly according to the calendar's
stylesheet, the box will be 6.25 inches (15.9 cm) tall and 9.25 inches
(23.5 cm) wide.  That should leave plenty of room for horizontal and
vertical margin adjustments, and for several rows containing days with
an overabundance of events in them.  Usually, rows with expanding
heights don't expand the overall height of the calendar box, because the
browser will compensate by shortening other rows that are not completely
full.

If you're having trouble getting things to look right when printing from
your browser, here are a few things to check.

* Is the print orientation set to *landscape*?
* Are your margins (top, bottom, left, right) *too wide*?
* Look for a "shrink to fit" setting in your printing preferences.
* If you're getting an *extra blank page* with each calendar, tell your
  browser to print only page 1.

I've noticed that some browsers have really pathetic support for
printing something like this.  If all else fails, you can try another
browser.  I wish I could suggest one that I know will work, but even the
same browser can have different printing subsystems on different
computer platforms.  I've recently had good success with Iceweasel, but
my best recent result was in Konqueror.  If you can get them, you might
also try Opera, Reconq, Google Chrome, Safari, or even Internet
Explorer.  They are all freely available, but not all available on every
operating system.

Last, but not least, try to be patient.  If you get frustrated, close
your eyes and take a few deep, slow breaths in through your nose and out
through your mouth.  Visualize what a finished calendar might look like
after you print it to paper.  All good gifts come down from above, and
are given by God the Father, our Creator, on the basis of His love for
us in Jesus Christ.  Since God's Son came and redeemed you from a
worthless and destructive life, He has also sanctified your use of time,
this calendar, and even your ornery web browser.  OK; now open your eyes
and see what's been going wrong.

<!- vim: set tw=72 ft=markdown :->
